I mean,
how much of what,
what people experience when it comes to the,
the word depression,
how much of it is their life going?
Bad tragedy,
poor health,
bad job choices.
How much of it is some sort of a weird genetic thing?
How much,
I mean,
there's so many variables as to what causes depression,
but such a giant number of people suffer from depression.
Well,
I think it's,
I think it only,
if I'm being honest,
I think it's going to get worse.
You know,
like you look at the way we live and the,
the closer and closer you've spoken about that we're just talking about fucking
New York.
We're not meant to be that confined.
We're not meant to sit out like with were withheld from the fucking sun right
now.
So many of these things communicate with our bodies and working with a genetic
specialist ran for a singer.
He was on Chris Ryan show sunlight influences 500 on off switches on our
epigenetic level for the,
for the good,
unless you fucking overdo it,
right?
500 500 plus on off switches in our DNA are affected by sunlight positively,
I mean there's,
they look at vitamin D three takes that,
for example,
they're calling that a hormone now,
not a fucking vitamin real is,
it's a messenger.
That's how much it influences in the body.
Incredibly important.
So when you think about all these things like being barefoot,
being connected to the earth,
going in the fucking ocean,
science will catch up in certain ways,
but we get fixated on the thing.
We get fixed in a fixated on our phones,
on whatever TV is going on.
We're closed off from other people.
We think,
you know,
communicating through Facebook is the same as being fucking face to face.
It's not,
you know,
and the more we head that direction and we're putting,
as you put it,
put in fucking shit food in our body from mouth pleasured that influences the
brain,
right?
80 to 90% of all of our neurotransmitters are made by the bacteria in our gut.
So you think the shit meals just going to put on five pounds?
It's not.
It might put on five pounds,
but it's going to fuck your brain up for a while.
You make you a little bit more emotional fuck with your,
your,
your sharpness,
your memory recall.
All that's impacted.
Sleeps impacted.
I wish Michael Walker talked a bit more about that and it's don't think it's in
his wheelhouse.
I don't think it is.
He's a,
he's just to go studies,
sleep and the effects on it,
but fuck,
was that in illuminating?
Yeah.
Eyeopening.
Don't know.
Cast was so important to me.
It was fucking fantastic.
I think his book is really good,
but as far as like dialing in sleep,
it's more of this is what happens when you don't sleep.
Sleep,
the book,
sleep by Nick Little hills is probably my favorite because that gives you all,
it's a fucking how to guide on how to maximize sleep and when you were younger,
lack of sleep didn't affect you the way it affects you now,
right?
Correct.
Yeah.
Everything he talks about like that,
would that shift that you have,
that happens in adolescence where you become a night owl?
No doubt,
and I probably still could stay out a little bit later until having a kid and
then that's your,
your immediate reset bitch.
You're getting up when the sun comes up.
Yeah.
Be prepared,
sir.
Get ready.
Yeah.
It's,
um,
there's so many different factors that lead to a healthy body,
but how much of a healthy body leads to a happy mind?
That's where it gets like,
you can't blame some of these people that are suffering from like a disease.
Some of these people that have like something wrong with the way their brain is
producing these happy hormones.
I don't think you can say it's just this one thing like,
well,
if you just eat clean or if you just went Quito or you just stay Paleo,
then you wouldn't have depression.
I don't think that's it at all.
But certainly that's a factor.
It's certainly could be a fact being in nature,
being in nature as a fact and unpacking trauma.
Gaba motto says at the heart of all fucking addiction is some form of trauma.
Yeah,
I'm sure.
Completely makes sense.
Yeah.
His,
uh,
his theories on that are fascinating.
It's,
I never thought about that way,
that some form of trauma during your developmental stage is led you to seek out
this weird,
crazy feeling and experience when you,
uh,
have,
have you known many people that have had like serious addictions,
like meth or,
oh,
yeah,
yeah.
Uh,
without naming names,
people very close to me.
Family members.
Uh,
I've been addicted to Meth,
lost a cousin to pills.
Um,
I've been going to Aa,
not for me,
for a family member since I was three years old.
So I've seen that,
you know,
what if is now,
now is that trauma based is like everything because pills don't pills just get
kind of get everybody.
Yeah.
Pills can get everybody.
There's no doubt about that.
Um,
the wing yourself off.
There was this show with some trauma there on a,
in all of those circumstances.
And I'm not saying,
you know,
pills can fucking grab you.
There's no doubt.
Um,
but certainly with the meth and,
uh,
the alcohol,
which was other things,
you know,
no doubt there was trauma there.
You have known of quite a few people that got fucked up on pills after
operations or injuries or stuff like that.
But,
um,
I know quite a few of them that it kicked it,
you know,
that just realized it was happening when whoa down,
like [inaudible] talked about it quite a bit when he fought cro cop,
his nose was destroyed,
so they had to rebuild his nose and he started taking pain pills and he said
after a while,
he's just taking them every day just because we wanted to take him.
And then his friends came over and cleaned out.
It's a medicine cabinet and like,
cut the shit,
dude,
you're four months later,
you're still taking these things all day long.
You can't do that anymore.
And he's like,
whoa.
He said he almost didn't even realize he was doing it.
It just kind of caught a hold of them.
Yeah.
Shit becomes habit,
especially when it's that euphoric.
It must be amazing.